 Copyright 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003
 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
 This Makefile.in is free software; the Free Software Foundation
 gives unlimited permission to copy and/or distribute it,
 with or without modifications, as long as this notice is preserved.

   Copyright (C) 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999,
   2000, 2001, 2002, 2003 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

 This file is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
 under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
 the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
 (at your option) any later version.

 This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
 WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
 MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
 General Public License for more details.

 You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
 along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
 Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.

 As a special exception to the GNU General Public License, if you
 distribute this file as part of a program that contains a
 configuration script generated by Autoconf, you may include it under
 the same distribution terms that you use for the rest of that program.

   Copyright (C) 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999,
   2000, 2001, 2002, 2003 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

 This file is (in principle) common to ALL GNU software.
 The presence of a machine in this file suggests that SOME GNU software
 can handle that machine.  It does not imply ALL GNU software can.

 This file is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
 it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
 the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
 (at your option) any later version.

 This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
 but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
 MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
 GNU General Public License for more details.

 You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
 along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
 Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330,
 Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.

 Copyright (C) 2003 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
 This configure script is free software; the Free Software Foundation
 gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify it.

 Copyright 1999, 2000, 2003 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

 This originates from X11R5 (mit/util/scripts/install.sh), which was
 later released in X11R6 (xc/config/util/install.sh) with the
 following copyright and license.

 Copyright (C) 1994 X Consortium

 Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
 of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to
 deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the
 rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or
 sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
 furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

 The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
 all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

 THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
 IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
 FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
 X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
 AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNEC-
 TION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

 Except as contained in this notice, the name of the X Consortium shall not
 be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other deal-
 ings in this Software without prior written authorization from the X Consor-
 tium.


 FSF changes to this file are in the public domain.

 Calling this script install-sh is preferred over install.sh, to prevent
 `make' implicit rules from creating a file called install from it
 when there is no Makefile.

 This script is compatible with the BSD install script, but was written
 from scratch.  It can only install one file at a time, a restriction
 shared with many OS's install programs.

 Common stub for a few missing GNU programs while installing.
 Copyright (C) 1996, 1997, 1999, 2000, 2002, 2003 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
 Originally by Fran,cois Pinard <pinard@iro.umontreal.ca>, 1996.

 This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
 it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
 the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
 any later version.


 * $Xorg: xclipboard.c,v 1.4 2001/02/09 02:05:38 xorgcvs Exp $
 *
 * 
Copyright 1989, 1998  The Open Group

Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its
documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
documentation.

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
OPEN GROUP BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

Except as contained in this notice, the name of The Open Group shall not be
used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other dealings
in this Software without prior written authorization from The Open Group.
 * *
 * Author:  Ralph Swick, DEC/Project Athena
 * Updated for R4:  Chris D. Peterson,  MIT X Consortium.
 * Reauthored by: Keith Packard, MIT X Consortium.
 

 * $Xorg: xcutsel.c,v 1.4 2001/02/09 02:05:39 xorgcvs Exp $
 *
 * 
Copyright 1989, 1998  The Open Group

Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its
documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
documentation.

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
OPEN GROUP BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

Except as contained in this notice, the name of The Open Group shall not be
used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other dealings
in this Software without prior written authorization from The Open Group.
 * *
 * Author:  Ralph Swick, DEC/Project Athena
 
