 * Copyright 1998 by Alan Hourihane, Wigan, England.
 *
 * Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its
 * documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
 * the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
 * copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
 * documentation, and that the name of Alan Hourihane not be used in
 * advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without
 * specific, written prior permission.  Alan Hourihane makes no representations
 * about the suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided
 * "as is" without express or implied warranty.
 *
 * ALAN HOURIHANE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE,
 * INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO
 * EVENT SHALL ALAN HOURIHANE BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR
 * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE,
 * DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER
 * TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
 * PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
 *
 * Authors:  Alan Hourihane, <alanh@fairlite.demon.co.uk>
 *
 * glintOutIBMRGBIndReg() and glintInIBMRGBIndReg() are used to access 
 * the indirect IBM RAMDAC registers only.
 
 * Copyright 1998-2001 by Alan Hourihane, Wigan, England.
 *
 * Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its
 * documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
 * the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
 * copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
 * documentation, and that the name of Alan Hourihane not be used in
 * advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without
 * specific, written prior permission.  Alan Hourihane makes no representations
 * about the suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided
 * "as is" without express or implied warranty.
 *
 * ALAN HOURIHANE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE,
 * INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO
 * EVENT SHALL ALAN HOURIHANE BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR
 * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE,
 * DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER
 * TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
 * PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
 *
 * Authors:  Alan Hourihane, <alanh@fairlite.demon.co.uk>
 *
 * Modified from IBMramdac.c to support TI RAMDAC routines 
 *   by Jens Owen, <jens@tungstengraphics.com>.
 *
 * glintOutTIIndReg() and glintInTIIndReg() are used to access 
 * the indirect TI RAMDAC registers only.
 
 * Copyright 1997-2001 by Alan Hourihane <alanh@fairlite.demon.co.uk>
 *
 * Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its
 * documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
 * the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
 * copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
 * documentation, and that the name of Alan Hourihane not be used in
 * advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without
 * specific, written prior permission.  Alan Hourihane makes no representations
 * about the suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided
 * "as is" without express or implied warranty.
 *
 * ALAN HOURIHANE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE,
 * INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO
 * EVENT SHALL ALAN HOURIHANE BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR
 * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE,
 * DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER
 * TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
 * PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
 *
 * Authors:  Alan Hourihane, <alanh@fairlite.demon.co.uk>
 *           Dirk Hohndel, <hohndel@suse.de>
 *	     Stefan Dirsch, <sndirsch@suse.de>
 *
 * this work is sponsored by S.u.S.E. GmbH, Fuerth, Elsa GmbH, Aachen and
 * Siemens Nixdorf Informationssysteme
 
 glint_common.h -- common header definitions for Gamma 2D/3D/DRM suite
 *
 * Copyright 2002 Tungsten Graphics, Inc., Cedar Park, Texas.
 * All Rights Reserved.
 *
 * Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
 * copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
 * to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
 * the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
 * and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
 * Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
 *
 * The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the next
 * paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
 * Software.
 *
 * THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
 * IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
 * FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
 * PRECISION INSIGHT AND/OR ITS SUPPLIERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
 * OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
 * ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
 * DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
 *
 * Converted to common header format:
 *   Jens Owen <jens@tungstengraphics.com>
 *
 * $XFree86: xc/programs/Xserver/hw/xfree86/drivers/glint/glint_common.h,v 1.1 2002/10/30 12:52:15 alanh Exp $
 *
 
 * Copyright 2000-2001 by Alan Hourihane, Sychdyn, North Wales, UK.
 *
 * Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its
 * documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
 * the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
 * copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
 * documentation, and that the name of Alan Hourihane not be used in
 * advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without
 * specific, written prior permission.  Alan Hourihane makes no representations
 * about the suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided
 * "as is" without express or implied warranty.
 *
 * ALAN HOURIHANE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE,
 * INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO
 * EVENT SHALL ALAN HOURIHANE BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR
 * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE,
 * DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER
 * TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
 * PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
 *
 * Authors:  Alan Hourihane, <alanh@fairlite.demon.co.uk>
 
*************************************************************************

Copyright 1998-1999 Precision Insight, Inc., Cedar Park, Texas.
All Rights Reserved.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sub license, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the
next paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions
of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL PRECISION INSIGHT AND/OR ITS SUPPLIERS BE LIABLE FOR
ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,

TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

*************************************************************************
*************************************************************************

Copyright 1998-1999 Precision Insight, Inc., Cedar Park, Texas.
All Rights Reserved.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sub license, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the
next paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions
of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL PRECISION INSIGHT AND/OR ITS SUPPLIERS BE LIABLE FOR
ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,

TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

*************************************************************************
*************************************************************************

Copyright 1998-1999 Precision Insight, Inc., Cedar Park, Texas.
All Rights Reserved.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sub license, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the
next paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions
of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL PRECISION INSIGHT AND/OR ITS SUPPLIERS BE LIABLE FOR
ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,

TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

*************************************************************************

 * Copyright 1997-2001 by Alan Hourihane, Wigan, England.
 *
 * Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its
 * documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
 * the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
 * copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
 * documentation, and that the name of Alan Hourihane not be used in
 * advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without
 * specific, written prior permission.  Alan Hourihane makes no representations
 * about the suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided
 * "as is" without express or implied warranty.
 *
 * ALAN HOURIHANE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE,
 * INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO
 * EVENT SHALL ALAN HOURIHANE BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR
 * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE,
 * DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER
 * TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
 * PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
 *
 * Authors:  Alan Hourihane, <alanh@fairlite.demon.co.uk>
 *           Dirk Hohndel, <hohndel@suse.de>
 *	     Stefan Dirsch, <sndirsch@suse.de>
 *	     Michel Dänzer, <michdaen@iiic.ethz.ch>
 *	     Sven Luther, <luther@dpt-info.u-strasbg.fr>
 *
 * this work is sponsored by S.u.S.E. GmbH, Fuerth, Elsa GmbH, Aachen, 
 * Siemens Nixdorf Informationssysteme and Appian Graphics.
 

 * glint register file 
 *
 * Copyright by Stefan Dirsch, Dirk Hohndel, Alan Hourihane
 * Authors: Alan Hourihane, <alanh@fairlite.demon.co.uk>
 *          Dirk Hohndel, <hohndel@suse.de>
 *          Stefan Dirsch, <sndirsch@suse.de>
 *          Simon P., <sim@suse.de>
 *
 * this work is sponsored by S.u.S.E. GmbH, Fuerth, Elsa GmbH, Aachen and
 * Siemens Nixdorf Informationssysteme
 *
 

   Copyright (c) 1999,  The XFree86 Project Inc. 
   Code adapted from mga/mga_shadow.c (Mark Vojkovich <markv@valinux.com>)
   by Michel Dänzer <michdaen@iiic.ethz.ch>


 * Copyright 1997-2001 by Alan Hourihane, Wigan, England.
 *
 * Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its
 * documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
 * the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
 * copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
 * documentation, and that the name of Alan Hourihane not be used in
 * advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without
 * specific, written prior permission.  Alan Hourihane makes no representations
 * about the suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided
 * "as is" without express or implied warranty.
 *
 * ALAN HOURIHANE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE,
 * INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO
 * EVENT SHALL ALAN HOURIHANE BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR
 * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE,
 * DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER
 * TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
 * PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
 *
 * Authors:  Alan Hourihane, <alanh@fairlite.demon.co.uk>
 *           Dirk Hohndel, <hohndel@suse.de>
 *           Stefan Dirsch, <sndirsch@suse.de>
 *           Mark Vojkovich, <mvojkovi@ucsd.edu>
 *           Michel Dänzer, <michdaen@iiic.ethz.ch>
 *
 * this work is sponsored by S.u.S.E. GmbH, Fuerth, Elsa GmbH, Aachen and
 * Siemens Nixdorf Informationssysteme
 * 
 * Permedia 2 accelerated options.
 

 * Copyright 1997-2001 by Alan Hourihane <alanh@fairlite.demon.co.uk>
 *
 * Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its
 * documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
 * the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
 * copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
 * documentation, and that the name of Alan Hourihane not be used in
 * advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without
 * specific, written prior permission.  Alan Hourihane makes no representations
 * about the suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided
 * "as is" without express or implied warranty.
 *
 * ALAN HOURIHANE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE,
 * INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO
 * EVENT SHALL ALAN HOURIHANE BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR
 * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE,
 * DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER
 * TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
 * PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
 *
 * Authors:  Alan Hourihane, <alanh@fairlite.demon.co.uk>
 *           Dirk Hohndel,   <hohndel@suse.de>
 *	     Stefan Dirsch,  <sndirsch@suse.de>
 *	     Helmut Fahrion, <hf@suse.de>
 *	     Michel Dänzer,  <michdaen@iiic.ethz.ch>
 *
 * this work is sponsored by S.u.S.E. GmbH, Fuerth, Elsa GmbH, Aachen and
 * Siemens Nixdorf Informationssysteme
 

 *  Permedia 2 Xv Driver
 *
 *  Copyright (C) 1998-2000 Michael H. Schimek <m.schimek@netway.at>
 *
 *  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
 *  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
 *  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
 *  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
 *  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
 *  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
 *
 *  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
 *  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
 *
 *  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
 *  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
 *  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
 *  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
 *  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
 *  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
 

 * Copyright 1998 by Alan Hourihane, Wigan, England.
 *
 * Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its
 * documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
 * the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
 * copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
 * documentation, and that the name of Alan Hourihane not be used in
 * advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without
 * specific, written prior permission.  Alan Hourihane makes no representations
 * about the suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided
 * "as is" without express or implied warranty.
 *
 * ALAN HOURIHANE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE,
 * INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO
 * EVENT SHALL ALAN HOURIHANE BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR
 * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE,
 * DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER
 * TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
 * PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
 *
 * Authors:  Alan Hourihane, <alanh@fairlite.demon.co.uk>
 *
 * Permedia2OutIndReg() and Permedia2InIndReg() are used to access 
 * the indirect Permedia2 RAMDAC registers only.
 

 * Copyright 1997-2001 by Alan Hourihane <alanh@fairlite.demon.co.uk>
 *
 * Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its
 * documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
 * the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
 * copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
 * documentation, and that the name of Alan Hourihane not be used in
 * advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without
 * specific, written prior permission.  Alan Hourihane makes no representations
 * about the suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided
 * "as is" without express or implied warranty.
 *
 * ALAN HOURIHANE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE,
 * INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO
 * EVENT SHALL ALAN HOURIHANE BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR
 * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE,
 * DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER
 * TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
 * PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
 *
 * Authors:  Alan Hourihane, <alanh@fairlite.demon.co.uk>
 *           Dirk Hohndel,   <hohndel@suse.de>
 *	     Stefan Dirsch,  <sndirsch@suse.de>
 *	     Helmut Fahrion, <hf@suse.de>
 *
 * this work is sponsored by S.u.S.E. GmbH, Fuerth, Elsa GmbH, Aachen and
 * Siemens Nixdorf Informationssysteme
 

 * Copyright 1998 by Alan Hourihane, Wigan, England.
 *
 * Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its
 * documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
 * the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
 * copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
 * documentation, and that the name of Alan Hourihane not be used in
 * advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without
 * specific, written prior permission.  Alan Hourihane makes no representations
 * about the suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided
 * "as is" without express or implied warranty.
 *
 * ALAN HOURIHANE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE,
 * INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO
 * EVENT SHALL ALAN HOURIHANE BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR
 * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE,
 * DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER
 * TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
 * PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
 *
 * Authors:  Alan Hourihane, <alanh@fairlite.demon.co.uk>
 *
 * Permedia2vOutIndReg() and Permedia2vInIndReg() are used to access 
 * the indirect Permedia2v RAMDAC registers only.
 

 * Copyright 2000-2001 by Sven Luther <luther@dpt-info.u-strasbg.fr>.
 *
 * Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its
 * documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
 * the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
 * copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
 * documentation, and that the name of Sven Luther not be used in
 * advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without
 * specific, written prior permission. Sven Luther makes no representations
 * about the suitability of this software for any purpose. It is provided
 * "as is" without express or implied warranty.
 *
 * SVEN LUTHER DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE,
 * INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO
 * EVENT SHALL SVEN LUTHER BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR
 * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE,
 * DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER
 * TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
 * PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
 *
 * Authors:  Sven Luther, <luther@dpt-info.u-strasbg.fr>
 *           Alan Hourihane, <alanh@fairlite.demon.co.uk>
 *
 * this work is sponsored by Appian Graphics.
 * 
 * Permedia 3 accelerated options.
 

 * Copyright 2000,2001 by Sven Luther <luther@dpt-info.u-strasbg.fr>.
 *
 * Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its
 * documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
 * the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
 * copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
 * documentation, and that the name of Sven Luther not be used in
 * advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without
 * specific, written prior permission. Sven Luther makes no representations
 * about the suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided
 * "as is" without express or implied warranty.
 *
 * SVEN LUTHER DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE,
 * INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO
 * EVENT SHALL SVEN LUTHER BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR
 * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE,
 * DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER
 * TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
 * PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
 *
 * Authors: Sven Luther, <luther@dpt-info.u-strasbg.fr>
 *          Thomas Witzel, <twitzel@nmr.mgh.harvard.edu>
 *          Alan Hourihane, <alanh@fairlite.demon.co.uk>
 *
 * this work is sponsored by Appian Graphics.
 * 
 

 * glint register file 
 *
 * Copyright by Sven Luther
 * Authors: Sven Luther, <luther@dpt-info.u-strasbg.fr>
 *          Thomas Witzel, <twitzel@nmr.mgh.harvard.edu>
 *
 * this work is sponsored by Appian Graphics.
 *
 

 * Copyright 2001 by Alan Hourihane, Sychdyn, North Wales.
 *
 * Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its
 * documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
 * the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
 * copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
 * documentation, and that the name of Alan Hourihane not be used in
 * advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without
 * specific, written prior permission.  Alan Hourihane makes no representations
 * about the suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided
 * "as is" without express or implied warranty.
 *
 * ALAN HOURIHANE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE,
 * INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO
 * EVENT SHALL ALAN HOURIHANE BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR
 * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE,
 * DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER
 * TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
 * PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
 *
 * Authors: Alan Hourihane, alanh@fairlite.demon.co.uk
 *          Sven Luther <luther@dpt-info.u-strasbg.fr>
 

 * Copyright 1997-2001 by Alan Hourihane, Wigan, England.
 *
 * Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its
 * documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
 * the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
 * copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
 * documentation, and that the name of Alan Hourihane not be used in
 * advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without
 * specific, written prior permission.  Alan Hourihane makes no representations
 * about the suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided
 * "as is" without express or implied warranty.
 *
 * ALAN HOURIHANE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE,
 * INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO
 * EVENT SHALL ALAN HOURIHANE BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR
 * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE,
 * DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER
 * TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
 * PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
 *
 * Authors:  Alan Hourihane, <alanh@fairlite.demon.co.uk>
 *           Dirk Hohndel, <hohndel@suse.de>
 *           Stefan Dirsch, <sndirsch@suse.de>
 *
 * this work is sponsored by S.u.S.E. GmbH, Fuerth, Elsa GmbH, Aachen and
 * Siemens Nixdorf Informationssysteme
 * 
 * Permedia accelerated options.
 

 * Copyright 1997-2001 by Alan Hourihane <alanh@fairlite.demon.co.uk>
 *
 * Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its
 * documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
 * the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
 * copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
 * documentation, and that the name of Alan Hourihane not be used in
 * advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without
 * specific, written prior permission.  Alan Hourihane makes no representations
 * about the suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided
 * "as is" without express or implied warranty.
 *
 * ALAN HOURIHANE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE,
 * INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO
 * EVENT SHALL ALAN HOURIHANE BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR
 * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE,
 * DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER
 * TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
 * PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
 *
 * Authors:  Alan Hourihane, <alanh@fairlite.demon.co.uk>
 *           Dirk Hohndel,   <hohndel@suse.de>
 *	     Stefan Dirsch,  <sndirsch@suse.de>
 *	     Helmut Fahrion, <hf@suse.de>
 *
 * this work is sponsored by S.u.S.E. GmbH, Fuerth, Elsa GmbH, Aachen and
 * Siemens Nixdorf Informationssysteme
 

 * Copyright 1997-2001 by Alan Hourihane, Wigan, England.
 *
 * Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its
 * documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
 * the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
 * copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
 * documentation, and that the name of Alan Hourihane not be used in
 * advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without
 * specific, written prior permission.  Alan Hourihane makes no representations
 * about the suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided
 * "as is" without express or implied warranty.
 *
 * ALAN HOURIHANE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE,
 * INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO
 * EVENT SHALL ALAN HOURIHANE BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR
 * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE,
 * DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER
 * TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
 * PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
 *
 * Authors:  Alan Hourihane, <alanh@fairlite.demon.co.uk>
 *           Dirk Hohndel, <hohndel@suse.de>
 *           Stefan Dirsch, <sndirsch@suse.de>
 *
 * this work is sponsored by S.u.S.E. GmbH, Fuerth, Elsa GmbH, Aachen and
 * Siemens Nixdorf Informationssysteme
 * 
 * GLINT 300SX accelerated options.
 

 * Copyright 1997-2001 by Alan Hourihane, Wigan, England.
 *
 * Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its
 * documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
 * the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
 * copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
 * documentation, and that the name of Alan Hourihane not be used in
 * advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without
 * specific, written prior permission.  Alan Hourihane makes no representations
 * about the suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided
 * "as is" without express or implied warranty.
 *
 * ALAN HOURIHANE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE,
 * INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO
 * EVENT SHALL ALAN HOURIHANE BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR
 * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE,
 * DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER
 * TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
 * PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
 *
 * Authors:  Alan Hourihane, <alanh@fairlite.demon.co.uk>
 *           Dirk Hohndel, <hohndel@suse.de>
 *           Stefan Dirsch, <sndirsch@suse.de>
 *
 * this work is sponsored by S.u.S.E. GmbH, Fuerth, Elsa GmbH, Aachen and
 * Siemens Nixdorf Informationssysteme
 * 
 * GLINT 500TX / MX accelerated options.
 

 * Copyright 1997-2001 by Alan Hourihane <alanh@fairlite.demon.co.uk>
 *
 * Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its
 * documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
 * the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
 * copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
 * documentation, and that the name of Alan Hourihane not be used in
 * advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without
 * specific, written prior permission.  Alan Hourihane makes no representations
 * about the suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided
 * "as is" without express or implied warranty.
 *
 * ALAN HOURIHANE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE,
 * INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO
 * EVENT SHALL ALAN HOURIHANE BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR
 * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE,
 * DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER
 * TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
 * PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
 *
 * Authors:  Alan Hourihane, <alanh@fairlite.demon.co.uk>
 *           Dirk Hohndel,   <hohndel@suse.de>
 *	     Stefan Dirsch,  <sndirsch@suse.de>
 *	     Helmut Fahrion, <hf@suse.de>
 *
 * this work is sponsored by S.u.S.E. GmbH, Fuerth, Elsa GmbH, Aachen and
 * Siemens Nixdorf Informationssysteme
