##########################################################################
#
# Copyright (c) 2007, 2009, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
#
# Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
# copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
# to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
# the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
# and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
# Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
#
# The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the next
# paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
# Software.
#
# THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
# IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
# FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
# THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
# LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
# FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
# DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
#
##########################################################################
#
#
# X.Org Foundation X cursor themes for Solaris

!HOME=../usr/share/icons

i pkginfo
i copyright
i depend=../depend

d none share						  0755 root sys
d none share/icons					  0755 root other

!search $HOME/handhelds/cursors
d none share/icons/handhelds				  0755 root other
d none share/icons/handhelds/cursors			  0755 root other
f none share/icons/handhelds/cursors/X_cursor             0444 root other
f none share/icons/handhelds/cursors/based_arrow_down     0444 root other
f none share/icons/handhelds/cursors/based_arrow_up       0444 root other
f none share/icons/handhelds/cursors/bottom_left_corner   0444 root other
f none share/icons/handhelds/cursors/bottom_right_corner  0444 root other
f none share/icons/handhelds/cursors/bottom_side          0444 root other
f none share/icons/handhelds/cursors/bottom_tee           0444 root other
f none share/icons/handhelds/cursors/center_ptr           0444 root other
f none share/icons/handhelds/cursors/circle               0444 root other
f none share/icons/handhelds/cursors/cross                0444 root other
f none share/icons/handhelds/cursors/dot                  0444 root other
f none share/icons/handhelds/cursors/dotbox               0444 root other
f none share/icons/handhelds/cursors/double_arrow         0444 root other
f none share/icons/handhelds/cursors/draped_box           0444 root other
f none share/icons/handhelds/cursors/fleur                0444 root other
f none share/icons/handhelds/cursors/gumby                0444 root other
f none share/icons/handhelds/cursors/hand2                0444 root other
f none share/icons/handhelds/cursors/left_ptr             0444 root other
f none share/icons/handhelds/cursors/left_ptr_watch       0444 root other
f none share/icons/handhelds/cursors/left_side            0444 root other
f none share/icons/handhelds/cursors/left_tee             0444 root other
f none share/icons/handhelds/cursors/ll_angle             0444 root other
f none share/icons/handhelds/cursors/pencil               0444 root other
f none share/icons/handhelds/cursors/right_ptr            0444 root other
f none share/icons/handhelds/cursors/right_side           0444 root other
f none share/icons/handhelds/cursors/right_tee            0444 root other
f none share/icons/handhelds/cursors/sb_h_double_arrow    0444 root other
f none share/icons/handhelds/cursors/sb_right_arrow       0444 root other
f none share/icons/handhelds/cursors/sb_up_arrow          0444 root other
f none share/icons/handhelds/cursors/sb_v_double_arrow    0444 root other
f none share/icons/handhelds/cursors/shuttle              0444 root other
f none share/icons/handhelds/cursors/top_left_corner      0444 root other
f none share/icons/handhelds/cursors/top_right_corner     0444 root other
f none share/icons/handhelds/cursors/top_side             0444 root other
f none share/icons/handhelds/cursors/top_tee              0444 root other
f none share/icons/handhelds/cursors/watch                0444 root other
f none share/icons/handhelds/cursors/xterm                0444 root other

!search $HOME/redglass/cursors
d none share/icons/redglass				  0755 root other
d none share/icons/redglass/cursors			  0755 root other
f none share/icons/redglass/cursors/X_cursor              0444 root other
f none share/icons/redglass/cursors/based_arrow_down      0444 root other
f none share/icons/redglass/cursors/based_arrow_up        0444 root other
f none share/icons/redglass/cursors/bottom_left_corner    0444 root other
f none share/icons/redglass/cursors/bottom_right_corner   0444 root other
f none share/icons/redglass/cursors/bottom_side           0444 root other
f none share/icons/redglass/cursors/bottom_tee            0444 root other
f none share/icons/redglass/cursors/center_ptr            0444 root other
f none share/icons/redglass/cursors/circle                0444 root other
f none share/icons/redglass/cursors/cross                 0444 root other
f none share/icons/redglass/cursors/dot                   0444 root other
f none share/icons/redglass/cursors/dotbox                0444 root other
f none share/icons/redglass/cursors/double_arrow          0444 root other
f none share/icons/redglass/cursors/draped_box            0444 root other
f none share/icons/redglass/cursors/fleur                 0444 root other
f none share/icons/redglass/cursors/gumby                 0444 root other
f none share/icons/redglass/cursors/hand2                 0444 root other
f none share/icons/redglass/cursors/left_ptr              0444 root other
f none share/icons/redglass/cursors/left_ptr_watch        0444 root other
f none share/icons/redglass/cursors/left_side             0444 root other
f none share/icons/redglass/cursors/left_tee              0444 root other
f none share/icons/redglass/cursors/ll_angle              0444 root other
f none share/icons/redglass/cursors/pencil                0444 root other
f none share/icons/redglass/cursors/right_ptr             0444 root other
f none share/icons/redglass/cursors/right_side            0444 root other
f none share/icons/redglass/cursors/right_tee             0444 root other
f none share/icons/redglass/cursors/sb_h_double_arrow     0444 root other
f none share/icons/redglass/cursors/sb_right_arrow        0444 root other
f none share/icons/redglass/cursors/sb_up_arrow           0444 root other
f none share/icons/redglass/cursors/sb_v_double_arrow     0444 root other
f none share/icons/redglass/cursors/shuttle               0444 root other
f none share/icons/redglass/cursors/top_left_corner       0444 root other
f none share/icons/redglass/cursors/top_right_corner      0444 root other
f none share/icons/redglass/cursors/top_side              0444 root other
f none share/icons/redglass/cursors/top_tee               0444 root other
f none share/icons/redglass/cursors/watch                 0444 root other
f none share/icons/redglass/cursors/xterm                 0444 root other

!search $HOME/whiteglass/cursors
d none share/icons/whiteglass				  0755 root other
d none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors			  0755 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/X_cursor            0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/base_arrow_down     0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/base_arrow_up       0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/boat                0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/bottom_left_corner  0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/bottom_right_corner 0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/bottom_side         0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/bottom_tee          0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/center_ptr          0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/circle              0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/cross               0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/dot                 0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/dot_box_mask        0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/double_arrow        0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/draped_box          0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/exchange            0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/fleur               0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/gumby               0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/hand1               0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/hand2               0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/left_ptr            0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/left_ptr_watch      0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/left_side           0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/left_tee            0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/ll_angle            0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/lr_angle            0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/pencil              0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/pirate              0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/question_arrow      0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/right_ptr           0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/right_side          0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/right_tee           0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/sailboat            0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/sb_down_arrow       0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/sb_h_double_arrow   0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/sb_left_arrow       0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/sb_right_arrow      0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/sb_up_arrow         0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/sb_v_double_arrow   0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/shuttle             0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/sizing              0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/target              0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/top_left_corner     0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/top_right_corner    0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/top_side            0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/top_tee             0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/trek                0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/ul_angle            0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/ur_angle            0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/watch               0444 root other
f none share/icons/whiteglass/cursors/xterm               0444 root other
