Release Notes for X11R7.6

The X.Org Foundation

December 2010

Abstract

These release notes contain information about features and their status in the
X.Org Foundation X11R7.6 release.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Table of Contents

Dedication
Introduction to the X11R7.6 Release
Summary of new features in X11R7.6
Overview of X11R7.6
Details of X11R7.6 components

    Video Drivers
    Input Drivers
    Xorg server
    Font support

Build changes and issues

    Silent build rules
    New configure options for font modules
    New configure options for documentation in modules

Miscellaneous

    Socket directory ownership and permissions

Deprecated components and removal plans

    Future Removals
    Removed in this Release

Attributions/Acknowledgements/Credits

Dedication

Two of the early leaders of the X Window System community were lost to cancer
this year — Smokey Wallace, who led the DEC WSL team which created the initial
implementation of X11, and Hideki Hiura from Sun Microsystems who helped design
the X11R6 internationalization framework. This release is dedicated to their
memory.

Introduction to the X11R7.6 Release

This release is the seventh modular release of the X Window System™. The next
full release will be X11R7.7 and is expected in 2011.

Unlike X11R1 through X11R6.9, X11R7.x releases are not built from one
monolithic source tree, but many individual modules. These modules are
distributed as individual source code releases, and each one is released when
it is ready, instead of only when the overall window system is ready for
release. The X11R7.x releases are made by “rolling up” the individual module
releases into a collection that is often affectionately called the “katamari”
by the developers.

The X11R7.6 release does not include all of the software formerly included in
the previous X Window System releases. It is designed to be a reasonable
baseline from which to start when building the window system for the first time
for a new installation, distribution, or package set. It does not provide a
full desktop environment, expecting a more feature rich set of applications to
be installed from one of the several excellent desktop environments available
for the X Window System. The X.Org developers continue to maintain and produce
new releases of much of the software that was formerly in the main window
system releases but is no longer included in the katamari releases, including
many of the Athena Widgets desktop applications that were provided as samples
in previous window system versions.

Once their window system build is established, most builders watch for
announcements of individual module updates on the xorg-announce mailing list
and update to those as needed. The X.Org Foundation currently releases the X
Window System katamari releases approximately once a year, but many modules,
especially the X servers and drivers, are updated more frequently between those
releases.

For help with how to build and develop in the modular tree see the Modular
Developer's Guide in the X.Org wiki.

We encourage you to report bugs using freedesktop.org's bug tracking system
using the xorg product, and to submit bug fixes and enhancements to <
xorg-devel@lists.x.org>. More details on patch submission and review process
are available on the SubmittingPatches page of the X.Org wiki.

The release numbering is based on the original MIT X numbering system. X11
refers to the version of the network protocol that the X Window system is based
on: Version 11 was first released in 1988 and has been stable for 22 years,
with only upward compatible additions to the core X protocol, a record of
stability envied in computing. Formal releases of X started with X version 9
from MIT; the first commercial X products were based on X version 10. The MIT X
Consortium and its successors, the X Consortium, the Open Group X Project Team,
and the X.Org Group released versions X11R3 through X11R6.6. Since the founding
of the X.Org Foundation in early 2004, many further releases have been issued,
from X11R6.7 to the current 7.6.

The next section describes what is new in the latest full release (7.6)
compared with the previous full release (7.5).

Summary of new features in X11R7.6

This is a sampling of the new features in X11R7.6. A more complete list of
changes can be found in the ChangeLog files that are part of the source of each
X module.

  ● InputClass sections in Xorg configuration files are used to apply
    configuration options to any input device matching specified rules, such as
    device path, type of device, device manufacturer, or other data provided by
    the input hotplug backend. Details can be found in the INPUTCLASS section
    of the xorg.conf(5) manual page.

  ● Xorg configuration directories are used to allow fragments of the X server
    configuration to be delivered in individual files. For instance, the input
    device driver matching rules previously provided in HAL .fdi files are now
    provided as InputClass sections in .conf files in a xorg.conf.d directory.

  ● udev is now used by the X server on Linux systems for input device
    discovery and hot-plug notification. Other platforms continue to use the
    HAL framework for these tasks for now.

  ● X protocol C-language Binding (XCB) is now included in the katamari, and is
    required by several client-side modules, including libX11, xlsatoms,
    xlsclients and xwininfo. XCB is a replacement for Xlib featuring a small
    footprint, latency hiding, direct access to the protocol, improved
    threading support, and extensibility. More information can be found on the
    XCB website at http://xcb.freedesktop.org/.

  ● Major progress has been made on the X.Org Documentation modernization -
    most of the library and protocol specifications are now included in the
    modules for those libraries and protocols so they can be updated in sync
    with new versions, and many have been converted to DocBook XML from the
    variety of formats they were previously in. On most systems these documents
    will be installed under /usr/share/doc/. They are also posted on the X.Org
    website at http://www.x.org/releases/X11R7.6/.

  ● Video and input driver enhancements. Please see the ChangeLog files for
    individual drivers; there are far too many updates to list here.

  ● ... and the usual assortment of correctness and crash fixes.

Overview of X11R7.6

On most platforms, X11R7.6 has a single hardware-driving X server binary called
Xorg. This binary can dynamically load the video drivers, input drivers, and
other modules that are needed. Xorg has currently has support for Linux,
Solaris, and some BSD OSs on Alpha, PowerPC, IA-64, AMD64, Intel x86, Sparc,
and MIPS platforms.

Additional specialized X server binaries may be found depending on the platform
and build configuration, including:

Xdmx

    is a proxy X server that uses one or more other X servers as its display
    devices. It provides multi-head X functionality for displays that might be
    located on different machines.

Xnest

    is a nested X server, that operates as both an X client and X server. Xnest
    is a client of the real server which manages windows and graphics requests
    on its behalf. Xnest is a server to its own clients, and manages windows
    and graphics requests on their behalf. To these clients, it appears to be a
    conventional server.

Xephyr

    is a X server that outputs to a window on a pre-existing “host” X display.
    Unlike Xnest which is an X proxy, and thus limited to the capabilities of
    the host X server, Xephyr is a full X server which uses the host X server
    window as a “framebuffer” via fast SHM XImages.

Xvfb

    is a virtual framebuffer X server that can run on machines with no display
    hardware and no physical input devices. It emulates a dumb framebuffer
    using virtual memory.

Xquartz

    is an X server that interacts with the MacOS X native Aqua window system,
    displaying windows on the Mac desktop and accepting input from the Mac
    system devices, allowing X11 applications to be used in a native Mac
    desktop session.

Xwin

    is an X server that runs under the Cygwin environment, interacting with the
    Microsoft Windows native window system, displaying windows on the Windows
    desktop and accepting input from the Windows system devices, allowing X11
    applications to be used in a native Windows desktop session.

Details of X11R7.6 components

Video Drivers

X11R7.6 includes the following video drivers:

┌─────────────┬─────────────────────────────┬──────────────────────────────┐
│Driver Name  │Description                  │Further Information           │
├─────────────┼─────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────┤
│apm          │Alliance Pro Motion          │README.apm                    │
├─────────────┼─────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────┤
│ark          │Ark Logic                    │                              │
├─────────────┼─────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────┤
│ast          │ASPEED Technology            │                              │
├─────────────┼─────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────┤
│chips        │Chips & Technologies         │README.chips, chips(4)        │
├─────────────┼─────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────┤
│cirrus       │Cirrus Logic                 │                              │
├─────────────┼─────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────┤
│fbdev        │Linux framebuffer device     │fbdev(4)                      │
├─────────────┼─────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────┤
│geode (*)    │AMD Geode GX and LX          │                              │
├─────────────┼─────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────┤
│glint        │3Dlabs, TI                   │glint(4)                      │
├─────────────┼─────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────┤
│i128         │Number Nine                  │README.I128, i128(4)          │
├─────────────┼─────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────┤
│i740         │Intel i740                   │README.i740                   │
├─────────────┼─────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────┤
│imstt        │Integrated Micro Solns       │                              │
├─────────────┼─────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────┤
│intel        │Intel i8xx/i9xx              │README.intel, intel(4)        │
├─────────────┼─────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────┤
│mach64       │ATI Mach64                   │README.ati                    │
├─────────────┼─────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────┤
│mga          │Matrox                       │mga(4)                        │
├─────────────┼─────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────┤
│neomagic     │NeoMagic                     │neomagic(4)                   │
├─────────────┼─────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────┤
│newport (-)  │SGI Newport                  │README.newport, newport(4)    │
├─────────────┼─────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────┤
│nsc          │National Semiconductor       │nsc(4)                        │
├─────────────┼─────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────┤
│nv           │NVIDIA                       │nv(4)                         │
├─────────────┼─────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────┤
│r128         │ATI Rage128                  │README.r128, r128(4)          │
├─────────────┼─────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────┤
│radeon       │ATI Radeon                   │radeon(4)                     │
├─────────────┼─────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────┤
│rendition    │Rendition                    │README.rendition, rendition(4)│
├─────────────┼─────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────┤
│s3           │S3 (not ViRGE or Savage)     │                              │
├─────────────┼─────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────┤
│s3virge      │S3 ViRGE                     │README.s3virge, s3virge(4)    │
├─────────────┼─────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────┤
│savage       │S3 Savage                    │savage(4)                     │
├─────────────┼─────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────┤
│siliconmotion│Silicon Motion               │siliconmotion(4)              │
├─────────────┼─────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────┤
│sis          │SiS                          │README.SiS, sis(4)            │
├─────────────┼─────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────┤
│sisusb       │SiS USB                      │sisusb(4)                     │
├─────────────┼─────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────┤
│suncg14 (+)  │Sun cg14                     │                              │
├─────────────┼─────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────┤
│suncg3 (+)   │Sun cg3                      │                              │
├─────────────┼─────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────┤
│suncg6 (+)   │Sun GX and Turbo GX          │                              │
├─────────────┼─────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────┤
│sunffb (+)   │Sun Creator/3D, Elite 3D     │                              │
├─────────────┼─────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────┤
│sunleo (+)   │Sun Leo (ZX)                 │                              │
├─────────────┼─────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────┤
│suntcx (+)   │Sun TCX                      │                              │
├─────────────┼─────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────┤
│tdfx         │3Dfx Voodoo Banshee, 3, 4 & 5│tdfx(4)                       │
├─────────────┼─────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────┤
│tga          │DEC TGA                      │README.DECtga                 │
├─────────────┼─────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────┤
│trident      │Trident                      │trident(4)                    │
├─────────────┼─────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────┤
│tseng        │Tseng Labs                   │                              │
├─────────────┼─────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────┤
│v4l          │Video4Linux                  │v4l(4)                        │
├─────────────┼─────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────┤
│vesa         │VESA                         │vesa(4)                       │
├─────────────┼─────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────┤
│vmware       │VMware guest OS              │vmware(4)                     │
├─────────────┼─────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────┤
│voodoo       │3Dfx Voodoo 1 & 2            │voodoo(4)                     │
├─────────────┼─────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────┤
│wsfb         │Workstation Framebuffer      │wsfb(4)                       │
├─────────────┼─────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────┤
│xgi          │XGI                          │xgi(4)                        │
├─────────────┼─────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────┤
│xgixp        │XGI XP                       │xgixp(4)                      │
└─────────────┴─────────────────────────────┴──────────────────────────────┘

Drivers marked with (*) are present in a preliminary form in this release, but
are not complete and/or stable yet.

Drivers marked with (+) are for Linux/Sparc only.

Drivers marked with (-) are for Linux/mips only.

Input Drivers

X11R7.6 includes the following input drivers:

┌───────────┬──────────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────┐
│Driver Name│Description                           │Further Information│
├───────────┼──────────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────┤
│acecad     │Acecad Flair                          │acecad(4)          │
├───────────┼──────────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────┤
│aiptek(*)  │Aiptek USB tablet                     │aiptek(4)          │
├───────────┼──────────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────┤
│evdev(*)   │Linux kernel EvDev                    │evdev(4)           │
├───────────┼──────────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────┤
│joystick   │Joystick                              │joystick(4)        │
├───────────┼──────────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────┤
│kbd        │generic keyboards (non-evdev systems) │kbd(4)             │
├───────────┼──────────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────┤
│mouse      │most mouse devices (non-evdev systems)│mousedrv(4)        │
├───────────┼──────────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────┤
│synaptics  │Synaptics & ALP touchpads             │synaptics(4)       │
├───────────┼──────────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────┤
│vmmouse    │VMWare virtual mouse                  │vmmouse(4)         │
├───────────┼──────────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────┤
│void       │dummy device                          │void(4)            │
└───────────┴──────────────────────────────────────┴───────────────────┘

Drivers marked with (*) are available for Linux only.

Xorg server

Loader and Modules

The Xorg server relies on the operating system's native module loader support
for handling program modules. The X server makes use of modules for video
drivers, X server extensions, input device drivers, framebuffer layers, and
internal components used by some drivers (like XAA & EXA).

The module interfaces (both API and ABI) used in this release are subject to
change without notice. While we will attempt to provide backward compatibility
for the module interfaces, we cannot guarantee this. Compatibility in the other
direction is explicitly not guaranteed because new modules may rely on
interfaces added in new releases.

Note about module security

The X server runs with root privileges, i.e., the X server loadable modules
also run with these privileges. For this reason we recommend that all users be
careful to only use loadable modules from reliable sources, otherwise the
introduction of viruses and contaminated code can occur and wreak havoc on your
system. We hope to have a mechanism for signing/verifying the modules that we
provide available in a future release.

Configuration File

The Xorg server uses a configuration file as the primary mechanism for
providing configuration and run-time parameters. The configuration file format
is described in detail in the xorg.conf(5) manual page.

Note that this release features significant improvements for running the server
without a configuration file, so many users may find that that they don't need
a configuration file.

If you do need to customize the configuration file, see the xorg.conf manual
page . You can also check the driver-specific manual pages and the related
documentation (found at driver tables) also.

The recommended method for generating a configuration file is to use the Xorg
server itself. Run as root:

        Xorg -configure


and follow the instructions.

Command Line Options

Command line options can be used to override some default parameters and
parameters provided in the configuration file. These command line options are
described in the Xorg(1) manual page.

Multi-head

Some multi-head configurations are supported in X11R7.6. Support for multiple
PCI/AGP cards may require a kernel with changes to support VGA arbitration.

One of the main problems is with drivers not sufficiently initializing cards
that were not initialized at boot time. This has been improved somewhat with
the INT10 support that is used by most drivers (which allows secondary card to
be "soft-booted", but in some cases there are other issues that still need to
be resolved. Some combinations can be made to work better by changing which
card is the primary card (either by using a different PCI slot, or by changing
the system BIOS's preference for the primary card).

Xinerama

Xinerama is an X server extension that allows multiple physical screens
connected to multiple video devices to behave as a single screen. With
traditional multi-head in X11, windows cannot span or cross physical screens.
Xinerama removes this limitation. Xinerama does, however, require that the
physical screens all have the same root depth, so it isn't possible, for
example, to use an 8-bit screen together with a 16-bit screen in Xinerama mode.

Xinerama is not enabled by default, and can be enabled with the +xinerama
command line option for the X server. Note that enabling Xinerama may disable
certain other extensions which are not compatible with Xinerama.

DDC

The VESA® Display Data Channel (DDC™) standard allows the monitor to tell the
video card (or in some cases the computer directly) about itself; particularly
the supported screen resolutions and refresh rates.

Partial or complete DDC support is available in most of the video drivers. DDC
is enabled by default, but can be disabled with a "Device" section entry:
Option "NoDDC". We have support for DDC versions 1 and 2; these can be disabled
independently with Option "NoDDC1" and Option "NoDDC2".

At startup the server prints out DDC information from the display, and can use
this information to set the default monitor parameters, or to warn about
monitor sync limits if those provided in the configuration file don't match
those that are detected.

Changed behavior caused by DDC.

Several drivers use DDC information to set the screen size and pitch. This can
be overridden by explicitly resetting it to the and non-DDC default value 75
with the -dpi 75 command line option for the X server, or by specifying
appropriate screen dimensions with the "DisplaySize" keyword in the "Monitor"
section of the config file.

GLX and the Direct Rendering Infrastructure (DRI)

Direct rendered OpenGL® support is provided for several hardware platforms by
the Direct Rendering Infrastructure (DRI). Further information about DRI can be
found at the DRI Project's web site. The 3D core rendering component is
provided by Mesa.

Of note is that this release supports building the X server using the
system-wide libdrm. Previously, drm was kept in the server's tree and loaded as
a module, rather than using the standard OS mechanisms for managing shared
libraries of code. This requires that the server be built using a version of
libdrm of 2.3.0 or newer if it is to use DRM.

Terminate Server keystroke

The Xorg server has previously allowed users to exit the server by pressing the
keys Control + Alt + Backspace. While this function is still enabled by default
in this release, the keymap data usually used with Xorg, from the
xkeyboard-config project, has been modified to not map that sequence by
default, in order to reduce the chance that inexperienced users will
accidentally destroy their work.

Users who wish to have this functionality available by default may enable it
via the XKB configuration option “terminate:ctrl_alt_bksp”. For instance, the
setxkbmap command can be used to enable this by running:

        setxkbmap -option "terminate:ctrl_alt_bksp"


The XKB Configuration Guide also includes an example xorg.conf.d file that sets
the “terminate:ctrl_alt_bksp” option by default on all keyboards. Many desktop
environments include XKB configuration options in their preferences to enable
this as well.

X Server startup state

The X servers in the X11R7.6 release now start by default with an empty black
screen and do not draw the mouse cursor until a client sets the cursor image.
To restore the classic behavior of starting with the grey weave pattern and ×
cursor, start the X server with the -retro option.

Font support

Details about the font support in X11R7.6 can be found in the “Fonts in X11R7.6
” document.

Default font installation directory

Previous versions of X installed font files under the lib/X11/fonts
subdirectory of the X installation directory (for instance, in X11R6 releases,
/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts was commonly used). This release uses the default
installation path of the fonts subdirectory of the datadir setting from the GNU
autoconf configuration. For instance, if the fonts are configured with ./
configure --prefix=/usr, they will be installed under subdirectories of /usr/
share/fonts/X11. The font module configure scripts all take an option of
--with-fontrootdir=PATH to override the default. If --with-fontrootdir is not
specified, the fontutil pkg-config file will be consulted to find the
fontrootdir specified when the fontutil module was installed.

Bitmap font compression methods

The X11R7.6 release supports PCF format bitmap fonts stored uncompressed or
compressed via the compress, gzip, or bzip2 programs. To utilize bzip2
compression, the libXfont and mkfontscale modules must be built with the
--with-bzip2 — all other methods are enabled by default.

To specify which compression method to use when installing a font module from
X11R7.6 the configure scripts accept an option of --with-compression=TYPE,
where TYPE may be none, compress, gzip, or bzip2.

Type1 Font support

Previous versions of X came with two Postscript Type1 font backends. The
functionality from the “Type1” backend has been replaced by the Type1 support
in the “FreeType” backend.

CID Font support

The CID-keyed font format was designed by Adobe Systems for fonts with large
character sets. The CID-keyed format is obsolete, as it has been superseded by
other formats such as OpenType/CFF and support for CID-keyed fonts has been
removed from X11.

Build changes and issues

Silent build rules

Most of the modules in this release use the AM_SILENT_RULES option of GNU
automake 1.11. When building the software, most output will show an abbreviated
format for the commands being run, such as:

   CC   xmen.o


To enable verbose output, showing all the arguments to the commands being run,
add the flag V=1 to the make command line or add the flag
--disable-silent-rules to the configure command.

New configure options for font modules

The bitmap font modules now accept a configure option of
--disable-all-encodings to set the default for all encodings to off, requiring
builders to then pass --enable-<encoding> flags for each encoding to be built.

New configure options for documentation in modules

As many more modules now contain documentation to be converted from DocBook XML
to text, HTML, PostScript, and/or PDF formats, new standard options have been
added to the configure macros to control the build of these in the modules.

                    Enables or disables use of the xmlto command to translate
--with-xmlto=yes|no DocBook XML to other formats. All DocBook XML conversions
                    require use of this command.

                    Enables or disables use of the Apache fop command to
--with-fop=yes|no   translate DocBook XML to PostScript and PDF formats.

                    Enables or disables the build and installation of all
--enable-docs=yes|  documentation except traditional man pages or those covered
no                  by the --enable-devel-docs and --enable-specs options.

--enable-devel-docs Enables or disables the build and installation of
=yes|no             documentation for developers of the X.Org software modules.

--enable-specs=yes| Enables or disables the build and installation of the
no                  formal specification documents for protocols and APIs.

Miscellaneous

This section describes other items of note for the X11R7.6 release.

Socket directory ownership and permissions

The socket directories created in /tmp are now required to be owned by root and
have their sticky-bit set. If the permissions are not set correctly, the
component using this directory will print an error message and fail to start.
Common socket directories that are known to be affected include:

        /tmp/.font-unix
        /tmp/.ICE-unix
        /tmp/.X11-unix


These directories are used by the font server (xfs), applications using the
Inter-Client Exchange protocol (ICE) and the X server, respectively.

There are several solutions to the problem of when to create these directories.
They could be created at install time by the system's installer if the /tmp dir
is persistent. They could be created at boot time by the system's boot scripts
(e.g., the init.d scripts). Or, they could be created by PAM modules at service
startup or user login time.

The solution chosen is platform dependent, and the system administrator should
be able to handle creating those directories on any systems that do not have
the correct ownership or permissions.

Deprecated components and removal plans

This section lists current plans for removal of obsolete or deprecated
components in the X.Org releases. As our releases are open source, users who
continue to require these can find the source in previous releases and continue
to use these, but the X.Org Foundation and its volunteers have decided the
burden of continued maintenance and distribution in the core X11 releases
outweighs the benefits of doing so. In some cases, this is simply because no
one has volunteered to do continued maintenance, so if software is listed here
that you need, you can contact <xorg@lists.freedesktop.org> to volunteer to
take over maintainership, either inside or outside of the Xorg release process.

Future Removals

          DGA 2.0 is included in 7.6. Documentation for the client libraries
          can be found in the XDGA(3) man page. DGA should be considered
DGA       deprecated; if you are relying on it, please let us know what you
version 2 need it for so we can find better solutions. In this release, support
          has been removed for all DGA rendering and mapping code, leaving just
          mode setting and raw input device access.

          The Xorg server currently uses the HAL framework to discover
          connected input devices, receive notification of hotplug events for
Input     them, and to retrieve configuration parameters for them. The HAL
device    maintainers have deprecated HAL, so the X.Org developers have begun
discovery replacement with alternatives. As a result, configuration of input
via HAL   devices via HAL *.fdi files is no longer supported on Linux platforms
          using udev, and may not be supported on other platforms in future
          Xorg server releases.

Removed in this Release

             The Xprint server and extension were previously removed from
Xprint       X11R7.5. This release removes Xprint support from a number of
             client programs that still had it.

             The experimental Xsdl server has never been finished or
Xsdl server  maintained, and was removed in this release.

             Support has been removed from the X servers for the following
Unmaintained extensions, which were obsolete, not widely used, or not working:
extensions
               ● Multi-Buffering

Attributions/Acknowledgements/Credits

This section lists the credits for the X11R7.6 release. For a more detailed
breakdown, refer to the ChangeLog file in the source tree for each module, the
history in the xorg product in freedesktop.org's git repositories or the 'git
log' information for individual source files.

The X Window System has been a collaborative effort from its inception. Our
apologies for anyone or organization inadvertently overlooked. Many individuals
(including major contributors) who worked on X are represented by their
employers in this list. If you feel we have left anyone out, please let us
know.

These people contributed in some way to X11R7.6 since the release of X11R7.5:

邓逸昕                               Kim Woelders
Aaron Plattner                       Kok, Auke
Aaron Zang                           Kristian Høgsberg
Adam Jackson                         Kusanagi Kouichi
Adam Tkac                            Lee Leahu
Adrian 'Dagurashibanipal' von Bidder Leif Middelschulte
Adrian Bunk                          Leonardo Chiquitto
Alan Coopersmith                     Lubos Lunak
Alberto Milone                       Luc Verhaegen
Alex Deucher                         Luca Tettamanti
Alex Warg                            Ma Ling
Alexander Kabaev                     Maarten Maathuis
Alp Toker                            Macpaul Lin
Andrej Gelenberg                     Magnus Kessler
Andres Salomon                       Marc Majka
Andrew Chant                         Marcin Baczyński
Andrew Randrianasulu                 Marcin Kościelnicki
Andrzej Hajda                        Marcin Slusarz
Andy Furniss                         Marek Olšák
Andy Ritger                          Mario Kleiner
Antoine Latter                       Mark Kettenis
Arkadiusz Miśkiewicz                 Marko Myllynen
Arnaud Fontaine                      Markus Duft
Auke Kok                             Markus Gapp
Bart Massey                          Markus Strobl
Bartek Iwaniec                       Mart Raudsepp
Bartosz Brachaczek                   Martin Ettl
Ben Byer                             Martin Otte
Ben Hutchings                        Martin Pärtel
Ben Skeggs                           Martin-Éric Racine
Benjamin Close                       Márton Németh
Benjamin Tissoires                   Matt Dew
Bernhard R. Link                     Matt Turner
Bob Ham                              Matteo Delfino
Brian Paul                           Matthias Hopf
Brice Goglin                         Matthieu Herrb
Bryce Harrington                     Matthijs Kooijman
Carl Worth                           Michael Cree
Carlos Garnacho                      Michael Jansen
Carsten Meier                        Michael Olbrich
Cedric Cellier                       Michael Ost
Chase Douglas                        Michael Stapelberg
Chris Bagwell                        Michael Vogt
Chris Ball                           Michał Górny
Chris Dekter                         Michel Dänzer
Chris Humbert                        Mikhail Gusarov
Chris Wilson                         Nicolai Hähnle
Christian Bühler                     Nicolas Boullis
Christian Hartmann                   Nicolas George
Christian Zander                     Nicolas Reinecke
Christoph Pfister                    Nigel Tamplin
Christopher James Halse Rogers       Nirbheek Chauhan
Cody Maloney                         Oldřich Jedlička
Colin Harrison                       Oliver McFadden
Colin Watson                         Olivier Samyn
Cooper Yuan                          Osamu Sayama
Corbin Simpson                       Oswald Buddenhagen
Csillag Kristof                      Otavio Salvador
Cyril Brulebois                      Owain G. Ainsworth
Dan Nicholson                        Owen W. Taylor
Daniel Drake                         Patrick Caulfield
Daniel Kahn Gillmor                  Patrick Curran
Daniel Stone                         Patrick E. Kane
Dave Airlie                          Patrick Guimond
David Ge                             Paul Bender
David James                          Paul Loewenstein
David Ronis                          Paul "TBBle" Hampson
David Woodhouse                      Pauli Nieminen
Diego 'Flameeyes' Pettenò            Paulo César Pereira de Andrade
Dima Kogan                           Paulo Ricardo Zanoni
Dirk Wallenstein                     Peter Harris
Dmitry Torokhov                      Peter Hutterer
Dominik Jasiok                       Peter Korsgaard
Donnie Berkholz                      Petr Salinger
Eamon Walsh                          Philippe Ribet
Ed Schouten                          Pierre-Loup A. Griffais
Edward Moy                           Rami Ylimäki
Edward O'Callaghan                   Rémi Cardona
Egbert Eich                          Rémi Denis-Courmont
Eric Anholt                          Richard Barnette
Éric Piel                            Richard Purdie
Eric Sesterhenn                      Rob Taylor
Fabio Pedretti                       Robert Bragg
Fernando Carrijo                     Robert Hooker
Francisco Jerez                      Robert Morell
Frank Huang                          Roel Kluin
Fredrik Höglund                      Roland Scheidegger
Gabor Z. Papp                        Ruediger Oertel
Gaetan Nadon                         Ryan Hajdaj
Geoffrey Li                          Sam Lau
Guillem Jover                        Sami Farin
Hans Nieser                          Samuel Thibault
Heikki Lindholm                      Sascha Hlusiak
Henning Sten                         Sedat Dilek
Henry Zhao                           Shunichi Fuji
Hiroyuki Ikezoe                      Simon Farnsworth
Horst Wente                          Simon Thum
Hunk Cui                             Søren Sandmann Pedersen
Ian Osgood                           Thien-Thi Nguyen
Ian Romanick                         Thomas Coppi
Ingmar Vanhassel                     Thomas Hellstrom
Jakob Bornecrantz                    Thomas Hunger
James Cloos                          Thomas Jaeger
James Jones                          Tiago Vignatti
James Le Cuirot                      Tilman Sauerbeck
Jamey Sharp                          Tim Yamin
Jan Hauffa                           Timo Aaltonen
Jens Petersen                        Timo Myyra
Jeremy Huddleston                    Tobias Droste
Jeremy Kolb                          Tobias Koch
Jeroen Hoek                          Tollef Fog Heen
Jerome Glisse                        Tomas Carnecky
Jesse Adkins                         Tomáš Chvátal
Jesse Barnes                         Tormod Volden
Jim Ingram                           Trevor Woerner
Jim Ramsay                           Ville Syrjälä
Joachim Breitner                     Vincent Torri
Jon TURNEY                           Walter Harms
Josh Triplett                        Will Thompson
Julien Cristau                       Wolfram
Julien Danjou                        Xavier Chantry
Juliusz Chroboczek                   Xiaoyang Yu (Max)
Justin Mattock                       Y.C. Chen
Kalle Olavi Niemitalo                Yaakov Selkowitz
Karl Tomlinson                       Yang Zhao
Kees Cook                            Yann Droneaud
Keith Packard                        Yannick Heneault
Kenneth Graunke                      Zephaniah E. Hull
Kevin E Martin                       Zhao Yakui
Kevin Van Vechten                     

This product includes software developed by:

2d3d Inc.                                  Kevin E. Martin
3Dlabs Inc. Ltd.                           Kim woelders
Aaron Plattner                             Kristian Høgsberg
Adam de Boor                               Larry Wall
Adam Jackson                               Lars Knoll
Adobe Systems Inc.                         Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.               Leif Delgass
After X-TT Project                         Lennart Augustsson
AGE Logic Inc.                             Leon Shiman
Alan Coopersmith                           Lexmark International Inc.
Alan Cox                                   Linus Torvalds
Alan Hourihane                             Linuxcare Inc.
Alexander Gottwald                         Lorens Younes
Alex Deucher                               Luc Verhaegen
Alex Williamson                            Machine Vision Holdings Inc.
Alexei Gilchrist                           Mandriva Linux
Anders Carlsson                            Manfred Brands
Andreas Luik                               Manish Singh
Andreas Monitzer                           Marc Aurele La France
Andreas Robinson                           Mark Adler
Andrei Barbu                               Mark J. Kilgard
Andrew C Aitchison                         Mark Kettenis
Andrey A. Chernov                          Mark Leisher
Andy Ritger                                Mark Smulders
Angus Lees                                 Mark Vojkovich
Ani Joshi                                  Martin Husemann
Anton Zioviev                              Marvin Solomon
Apollo Computer Inc.                       Massachusetts Inst. Of Technology
Apple Computer Inc.                        Matrox Graphics
Apple Inc.                                 Matt Dew
Ares Software Corp.                        Matthew Grossman
Arnaud LE HORS                             Matthias Hopf
Arne Schwabe                               Matthias Ihmig
ASPEED Technology Inc.                     Matthieu Herrb
AT&T Inc.                                  Metro Link Inc.
ATI Technologies Inc.                      Michal Rehacek
Bart Massey                                Michael Bax
Bart Trojanowski, Symbio Technologies, LLC Michael H. Schimek
BEAM Ltd.                                  Michael P. Marking
Benjamin Herrenschmidt                     Michael Schimek
Benjamin Rienfenstahl                      Michael Smith
Ben Skeggs                                 Michel Dänzer
Beth Mardutho: The Syriac Institute        Mike A. Harris
Bigelow and Holmes                         Mike Harris
Bill Reynolds                              Ming Yu
Bitstream Inc.                             MIPS Computer Systems Inc.
Bogdan Diaconescu                          MontaVista Software Inc.
Branden Robinson                           National Security Agency
Brian Fundakowski Feldman                  National Semiconductor
Brian Goines                               NCR Corporation Inc.
Bogdan D.                                  Neil Brown
Brian Paul                                 NetBSD Foundation
Bruce Kalk                                 Netscape Communications Corp.
Bruno Haible                               Network Computing Devices Inc.
Bryan Stine                                New Mexico State University
Bryan W. Headley.                          Nicholas Joly
C. Scott Ananian                           Nicholas Miell
Carl Switzky                               Nicholas Wourms
Catharon Productions Inc.                  Nicolai Haehnle
Charles Murcko                             Noah Levitt
Chen Xiangyang                             Nolan Leake
Chisato Yamauchi                           Nokia Corporation
Chris Constello                            Nokia Home Communications
Chris Salch                                Novell Inc.
Christian Thaeter                          Nozomi YTOW
Christian Zietz                            NTT Software Corporation
Cognition Corp.                            Number Nine Computer Corp.
Compaq Computer Corporation                Number Nine Visual Technologies
Concurrent Computer Corporation            NVIDIA Corporation
Conectiva S.A.                             Oivier Danet
Corin Anderson                             Oki Technosystems Laboratory Inc.
Corvin Zahn.                               Olivetti Research Limited
Cronyx Ltd.                                OMRON Corporation
Craig Struble                              Open Software Foundation
Daewoo Electronics Co. Ltd.                Open Text Corporation
Dag-Erling Smørgrav                        OpenedHand Ltd.
Dale Schumacher                            Oracle Corp.
Damien Miller                              Orest Zborowski
Daniel Berrange                            Owen Taylor
Daniel Borca                               Pablo Saratxaga
Daniel Stone                               Panacea Inc.
Daniver Limited                            Panagiotis Tsirigotis
Daryll Strauss                             Paolo Severini
Data General Corporation                   Pascal Haible
Dave Airlie                                Patrick Lecoanet
David Bateman                              Patrick Lerda
David Dawes                                Paul Anderson
David E. Wexelblat                         Paul Elliott
David Holland                              Paul Mackerras
David J. McKay                             Peter Breitenlohner
David McCullough                           Peter Hutterer
David Mosberger-Tang                       Peter Kunzmann
David Reveman                              Peter Osterlund
David S. Miller                            Peter Trattler
David Woodhouse                            Phil Karlton
Davor Matic                                Philip Blundell
Deron Johnson                              Philip Homburg
Digeo Inc.                                 Philip Langdale
Dennis De Winter                           Precision Insight Inc.
Digital Equipment Corporation              Prentice Hall
Dirk Hohndel                               Quarterdeck Office Systems
Dmitry Golubev                             Radek Doulik
Donnie Berkholz                            Ralf Habacker
DOS-EMU-Development-Team                   Randy Hendry
Doug Anson                                 Ranier Keller
Drew Parsons                               Red Hat Inc.
Earle F. Philhower III                     Regis Cridlig
Edouard TISSERANT                          Rene Cougnenc
Eduard Fuchs                               Richard A. Hecker
Eduardo Horvath                            Richard Burdick
Egbert Eich                                Rich Murphey
Egmont Koblinger                           Rickard E. Faith
Elliot Lee                                 Rik Faith
Eric Anholt                                Robert Chesler
Eric Fortune                               Robert Millan
Eric Sunshine                              Robert V. Baron
Erik Fortune                               Robert W. Scheifler
Erik Nygren                                Robin Cutshaw
Evans & Sutherland Computer Corp.          Roland Mainz
Fabio Massimo Di Nitto                     Roland Scheidegger
Fabrizio Gennari                           Ronny Vindenes
Fedor P. Goncharov                         Russ Blaine
Felix Kühling                              Ryan Breen
Finn Thoegersen                            Ryan Lortie
Francesco Zappa Nardelli                   Ryan Underwood
Frank C. Earl                              S. Lehner
Florian Loitsch                            S3 Graphics Inc.
Francisco Jerez                            Sam Leffler
Fred Hucht                                 Santa Cruz Operation Inc.
Frederic Lepied                            Sascha Hlusiak.
Fredrik Höglund                            SciTech Software
Free Software Foundation                   Scott Laird
Fujitsu Limited                            Sebastien Marineau
Fujitsu Open Systems Solutions Inc.        Serge Winitzki
Fuji Xerox Co. Ltd.                        Sergey Vovk
Gaetan Nadon                               Shigehiro Nomura
Gareth Hughes                              ShoGraphics Inc.
Geert Uytterhoeven                         Shunsuke Akiyama
George Fufutos                             Silicon Graphics Computer Systems
George Sapountzis                          Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Gerrit Jan Akkerman                        Silicon Integrated Systems Corp
Gerry Toll                                 Silicon Motion Inc.
Ghozlane Toumi                             Simon P. Cooper
Glenn G. Lai                               Simon Thum
GNOME Foundation                           Snitily Graphics Consulting Services
Go Watanabe                                Sony Corporation
Google Summer of Code participants         Søren Sandmann
Greg Kroah-Hartman                         SRI
Gregory Mokhin                             Stanislav Brabec
Greg Parker                                Stefan Bethge
GROUPE BULL                                Stefan Dirsch
Guillem Jover                              Stefan Gmeiner
Guy Martin                                 Stephane Marchesin
Hans Oey                                   Stephan Lang
Harald Koenig                              Steven Lang
Harm Hanemaayer                            Stuart Kreitman
Harold L Hunt II                           Sun Microsystems Inc.
Harry Langenbacher                         SunSoft Inc.
Hartwig Felger                             SuSE Inc
Henry A. Worth                             Sven Luther
Henry Davies                               Takis Psarogiannakopoulos
Hewlett-Packard Company                    Takuma Murakami
Hideki Hiura                               Takuya SHIOZAKI
Hitachi Ltd.                               T. A. Phelps
Holger Veit                                Tektronix Inc.
Hong Bo Peng                               Theo de Raadt
Howard Greenwell                           Theodore Ts'o
Hummingbird Communications Ltd.            The Open Group
Ian Romanick                               The Unichrome Project
IBM Corporation                            The Weather Channel Inc.
Inst. of Software Academia Sinica          Thomas E. Dickey
Intel Corporation                          Thomas G. Lane
INTERACTIVE Systems Corporation            Thomas Hellström
Itai Nahshon                               Thomas Mueller
Itronix Inc.                               Thomas Roell
Ivan Kokshaysky                            Thomas Thanner
Ivan Pascal                                Thomas Winischhofer
Jakub Jelinek                              Thomas Wolfram
James Tsillas                              Thorsten.Ohl
Jamey Sharp                                Tiago Gons
Jason Bacon                                Tilman Sauerbeck
Jaymz Julian                               Todd C. Miller
Jean-loup Gailly                           Tomohiro KUBOTA
Jeff Hartmann                              Torrey Lyons
Jeff Kirk                                  Torrey T. Lyons
Jeffrey Hsu                                TOSHIBA Corp.
Jehan Bing                                 Toshimitsu Tanaka
Jeremy C. Reed                             Travis Tilley
Jeremy Katz                                Trolltech AS
Jeremy Huddleston                          Troy D. Hanson
Jerome Glisse                              Tungsten Graphics Inc.
Jesse Barnes                               Tuomas J. Lukka
Jim Gettys                                 Ty Sarna
Jim Tsillas                                UCHIYAMA Yasushi
Joerg Sonnenberger                         Unicode Inc.
John Dennis                                UniSoft Group Limited
John Harper                                University of California
John Heasley                               University of South Australia
Jonathan Adamczewski                       University of Utah
Jon Block                                  University of Wisconsin
Jon Smirl                                  UNIX System Laboratories Inc.
Jon Tombs                                  URW++ GmbH
Jörg Bösner                                Valery Inozemtsev
Jorge Delgado                              VA Linux Systems
José Fonseca                               VIA Technologies Inc.
Josh Triplett                              Video Electronics Standard Assoc.
Joseph Friedman                            VMware Inc.
Joseph P. Skudlarek                        Vrije Universiteit
Joseph V. Moss                             Wittawat Yamwong
Julio M. Merino Vidal                      Wyse Technology Inc.
Juan Romero Pardines                       X Consortium
Juliusz Chroboczek                         XFree86 Project Inc.
Jyunji Takagi                              Xi Graphics Inc.
Kaleb Keithley                             X-Oz Technologies
Kazushi (Jam) Marukawa                     X-TrueType Server Project
Kazuyuki (ikko-) Okamoto                   X.Org Foundation
Kazutaka YOKOTA                            XGI Technology
Kean Johnston                              Yu Shao
Keith Packard                              Zack Rusin
Keith Whitwell                             Zephaniah E. Hull
Kensuke Matsuzaki                          Zhenyu Wang

This product includes software developed by The XFree86 Project, Inc (http://
www.xfree86.org/) and its contributors.

This product includes software that is based in part on the work of the
FreeType Team (http://www.freetype.org/).

This product includes software developed by the University of California,
Berkeley and its contributors.

This product includes software developed by Christopher G. Demetriou.

This product includes software developed by the NetBSD Foundation, Inc. (http:/
/www.netbsd.org/) and its contributors.

This product includes software developed by X-Oz Technologies (http://
www.x-oz.com/).

